# Validators Guide ⚖️

---
## System Requirements

* OpenAI or other LLM service providers, or local vLLM/sglang deployment.


## Validate Process

*Always test your validator on Testnet #288 first*

The Validator within the subnet architecture serves as the critical assessment role responsible for performance evaluation and scoring of subnet miners. However, unlike conventional subnet implementations, Eastworld's miner evaluation framework constitutes a longitudinal, multidimensional process requiring strategic oversight. Transient, isolated task outcomes prove insufficient for comprehensive capability assessment of AI Agents.

Our ongoing research focuses on deepening Validator integration within this evaluation paradigm (e.g., through NPC role emulation and custom task orchestration). Presently, the operational workflow involves:

- Retrieval of agent operational telemetry (objective datasets) from Eastworld server

- Generates contextual reinterpretations (subjective observations), then co-encapsulates with objective instrumentation readings into Synapse data structures

- Request the Miner to obtain strategic decisions (via valid function calls), then synchronize step operations with the Eastworld Server.

The weighting and incentive mechanism derives from aggregated performance metrics accessed via Eastworld's Leaderboard API, ensuring dynamic score calibration based on cumulative miner achievements.


## Running a Validator

### Installation

#### 1. Prepare the code and environment

```
git clone https://github.com/Eastworld-AI/eastworld-subnet
cd eastworld-subnet

# Recommanded: Use uv to manage packages
uv venv .venv
uv sync --prerelease=allow
uv pip install -e .

# Or use pip
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install -e .

```

#### 2. Register a validator

After obtaining your testnet TAO, you can register your validator for the testnet:

```
btcli subnets register --network test --netuid 288
btcli stake add --network test --netuid 288
```


#### 3. Start the validator

```
# Don't forget to set your LLM credential
# export OPENAI_BASE_URL= OPENAI_API_KEY=
# or put them in the .env file

# Activate the virtual environment
source .venv/bin/activate

python neurons/validator.py --subtensor.network test --netuid 288 --wallet.name YOUR_WALLET_NAME --wallet.hotkey YOUR_HOTKEY_NAME --logging.debug --neuron.axon_off --wandb.off --eastworld.endpoint_url="https://testnet.eastworld.ai"
```


## Eastworld Server Authentication

The Eastworld Server employs Basic Authentication to govern API access. The `username` field concatenates the validator's hotkey address with a timestamp, while the `password` field is generated by cryptographically signing a message with the corresponding hotkey:

```
<Bytes>Eastworld AI _TIMESTAMP_</Bytes>
```

Check the implementation details in the `gen_http_auth` method.
